==========================
NumPy 1.14.2 Release Notes
==========================

This is a bugfix release for some bugs reported following the 1.14.1 release. The major
problems dealt with are as follows.

* Residual bugs in the new array printing functionality.
* Regression resulting in a relocation problem with shared library.
* Improved PyPy compatibility.

The Python versions supported in this release are 2.7 and 3.4 - 3.6. The Python
3.6 wheels available from PIP are built with Python 3.6.2 and should be
compatible with all previous versions of Python 3.6. The source releases were
cythonized with Cython 0.26.1, which is known to **not** support the upcoming
Python 3.7 release.  People who wish to run Python 3.7 should check out the
NumPy repo and try building with the, as yet, unreleased master branch of
Cython.

Contributors
============

A total of 4 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Allan Haldane
* Charles Harris
* Eric Wieser
* Pauli Virtanen

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 5 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#10674 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/10674>`__: BUG: Further back-compat fix for subclassed array repr
* `#10725 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/10725>`__: BUG: dragon4 fractional output mode adds too many trailing zeros
* `#10726 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/10726>`__: BUG: Fix f2py generated code to work on PyPy
* `#10727 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/10727>`__: BUG: Fix missing NPY_VISIBILITY_HIDDEN on npy_longdouble_to_PyLong
* `#10729 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/10729>`__: DOC: Create 1.14.2 notes and changelog.
