.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.17.2 Release Notes
==========================

This release contains fixes for bugs reported against NumPy 1.17.1 along with a
some documentation improvements. The most important fix is for lexsort when the
keys are of type (u)int8 or (u)int16. If you are currently using 1.17 you
should upgrade.

The Python versions supported in this release are 3.5-3.7, Python 2.7 has been
dropped.  Python 3.8b4 should work with the released source packages, but there
are no future guarantees.

Downstream developers should use Cython >= 0.29.13 for Python 3.8 support and
OpenBLAS >= 3.7 to avoid errors on the Skylake architecture. The NumPy wheels
on PyPI are built from the OpenBLAS development branch in order to avoid those
errors.


Contributors
============

A total of 7 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* CakeWithSteak +
* Charles Harris
* Dan Allan
* Hameer Abbasi
* Lars Grueter
* Matti Picus
* Sebastian Berg


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 8 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#14418 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14418>`__: BUG: Fix aradixsort indirect indexing.
* `#14420 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14420>`__: DOC: Fix a minor typo in dispatch documentation.
* `#14421 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14421>`__: BUG: test, fix regression in converting to ctypes
* `#14430 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14430>`__: BUG: Do not show Override module in private error classes.
* `#14432 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14432>`__: BUG: Fixed maximum relative error reporting in assert_allclose.
* `#14433 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14433>`__: BUG: Fix uint-overflow if padding with linear_ramp and negative...
* `#14436 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14436>`__: BUG: Update 1.17.x with 1.18.0-dev pocketfft.py.
* `#14446 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14446>`__: REL: Prepare for NumPy 1.17.2 release.
