.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.17.1 Release Notes
==========================

This release contains a number of fixes for bugs reported against NumPy 1.17.0
along with a few documentation and build improvements.  The Python versions
supported are 3.5-3.7, note that Python 2.7 has been dropped.  Python 3.8b3
should work with the released source packages, but there are no future
guarantees.

Downstream developers should use Cython >= 0.29.13 for Python 3.8 support and
OpenBLAS >= 3.7 to avoid problems on the Skylake architecture. The NumPy wheels
on PyPI are built from the OpenBLAS development branch in order to avoid those
problems.


Contributors
============

A total of 17 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Alexander Jung +
* Allan Haldane
* Charles Harris
* Eric Wieser
* Giuseppe Cuccu +
* Hiroyuki V. Yamazaki
* Jérémie du Boisberranger
* Kmol Yuan +
* Matti Picus
* Max Bolingbroke +
* Maxwell Aladago +
* Oleksandr Pavlyk
* Peter Andreas Entschev
* Sergei Lebedev
* Seth Troisi +
* Vladimir Pershin +
* Warren Weckesser


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 24 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#14156 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14156>`__: TST: Allow fuss in testing strided/non-strided exp/log loops
* `#14157 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14157>`__: BUG: avx2_scalef_ps must be static
* `#14158 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14158>`__: BUG: Remove stray print that causes a SystemError on python 3.7.
* `#14159 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14159>`__: BUG: Fix DeprecationWarning in python 3.8.
* `#14160 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14160>`__: BLD: Add missing gcd/lcm definitions to npy_math.h
* `#14161 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14161>`__: DOC, BUILD: cleanups and fix (again) 'build dist'
* `#14166 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14166>`__: TST: Add 3.8-dev to travisCI testing.
* `#14194 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14194>`__: BUG: Remove the broken clip wrapper (Backport)
* `#14198 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14198>`__: DOC: Fix hermitian argument docs in svd.
* `#14199 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14199>`__: MAINT: Workaround for Intel compiler bug leading to failing test
* `#14200 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14200>`__: TST: Clean up of test_pocketfft.py
* `#14201 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14201>`__: BUG: Make advanced indexing result on read-only subclass writeable...
* `#14236 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14236>`__: BUG: Fixed default BitGenerator name
* `#14237 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14237>`__: ENH: add c-imported modules for freeze analysis in np.random
* `#14296 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14296>`__: TST: Pin pytest version to 5.0.1
* `#14301 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14301>`__: BUG: Fix leak in the f2py-generated module init and `PyMem_Del`...
* `#14302 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14302>`__: BUG: Fix formatting error in exception message
* `#14307 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14307>`__: MAINT: random: Match type of SeedSequence.pool_size to DEFAULT_POOL_SIZE.
* `#14308 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14308>`__: BUG: Fix numpy.random bug in platform detection
* `#14309 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14309>`__: ENH: Enable huge pages in all Linux builds
* `#14330 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14330>`__: BUG: Fix segfault in `random.permutation(x)` when x is a string.
* `#14338 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14338>`__: BUG: don't fail when lexsorting some empty arrays (#14228)
* `#14339 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14339>`__: BUG: Fix misuse of .names and .fields in various places (backport...
* `#14345 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14345>`__: BUG: fix behavior of structured_to_unstructured on non-trivial...
* `#14350 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14350>`__: REL: Prepare 1.17.1 release
