.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.17.5 Release Notes
==========================

This release contains fixes for bugs reported against NumPy 1.17.4 along with
some build improvements. The Python versions supported in this release
are 3.5-3.8.

Downstream developers should use Cython >= 0.29.14 for Python 3.8 support and
OpenBLAS >= 3.7 to avoid errors on the Skylake architecture.

It is recommended that developers interested in the new random bit generators
upgrade to the NumPy 1.18.x series, as it has updated documentation and
many small improvements.


Contributors
============

A total of 6 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Charles Harris
* Eric Wieser
* Ilhan Polat
* Matti Picus
* Michael Hudson-Doyle
* Ralf Gommers


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 8 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#14593 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14593>`__: MAINT: backport Cython API cleanup to 1.17.x, remove docs
* `#14937 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14937>`__: BUG: fix integer size confusion in handling array's ndmin argument
* `#14939 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14939>`__: BUILD: remove SSE2 flag from numpy.random builds
* `#14993 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14993>`__: MAINT: Added Python3.8 branch to dll lib discovery
* `#15038 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15038>`__: BUG: Fix refcounting in ufunc object loops
* `#15067 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15067>`__: BUG: Exceptions tracebacks are dropped
* `#15175 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15175>`__: ENH: Backport improvements to testing functions.
* `#15213 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15213>`__: REL: Prepare for the NumPy 1.17.5 release.
