.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.17.4 Release Notes
==========================

This release contains fixes for bugs reported against NumPy 1.17.3 along with
some build improvements. The Python versions supported in this release
are 3.5-3.8.

Downstream developers should use Cython >= 0.29.13 for Python 3.8 support and
OpenBLAS >= 3.7 to avoid errors on the Skylake architecture.


Highlights
==========

- Fixed `random.random_integers` biased generation of 8 and 16 bit integers.
- Fixed `np.einsum` regression on Power9 and z/Linux.
- Fixed histogram problem with signed integer arrays.


Contributors
============

A total of 5 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Charles Harris
* Chris Burr +
* Matti Picus
* Qiming Sun +
* Warren Weckesser


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 8 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#14758 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14758>`__: BLD: declare support for python 3.8
* `#14781 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14781>`__: BUG: random: biased samples from integers() with 8 or 16 bit...
* `#14851 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14851>`__: BUG: Fix _ctypes class circular reference. (#13808)
* `#14852 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14852>`__: BLD: add 'apt update' to shippable
* `#14855 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14855>`__: BUG: Fix `np.einsum` errors on Power9 Linux and z/Linux
* `#14857 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14857>`__: BUG: lib: Fix histogram problem with signed integer arrays.
* `#14858 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14858>`__: BLD: Prevent -flto from optimising long double representation...
* `#14866 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14866>`__: MAINT: move buffer.h -> npy_buffer.h to avoid conflicts

