.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.18.1 Release Notes
==========================

This release contains fixes for bugs reported against NumPy 1.18.0.  Two bugs
in particular that caused widespread problems downstream were:

- The cython random extension test was not using a temporary directory for
  building, resulting in a permission violation. Fixed.

- Numpy distutils was appending `-std=c99` to all C compiler runs, leading to
  changed behavior and compile problems downstream. That flag is now only
  applied when building numpy C code.

The Python versions supported in this release are 3.5-3.8. Downstream
developers should use Cython >= 0.29.14 for Python 3.8 support and OpenBLAS >=
3.7 to avoid errors on the Skylake architecture.

Contributors
============

A total of 7 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Charles Harris
* Matti Picus
* Maxwell Aladago
* Pauli Virtanen
* Ralf Gommers
* Tyler Reddy
* Warren Weckesser

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 13 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#15158 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15158>`__: MAINT: Update pavement.py for towncrier.
* `#15159 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15159>`__: DOC: add moved modules to 1.18 release note
* `#15161 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15161>`__: MAINT, DOC: Minor backports and updates for 1.18.x
* `#15176 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15176>`__: TST: Add assert_array_equal test for big integer arrays
* `#15184 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15184>`__: BUG: use tmp dir and check version for cython test (#15170)
* `#15220 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15220>`__: BUG: distutils: fix msvc+gfortran openblas handling corner case
* `#15221 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15221>`__: BUG: remove -std=c99 for c++ compilation (#15194)
* `#15222 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15222>`__: MAINT: unskip test on win32
* `#15223 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15223>`__: TST: add BLAS ILP64 run in Travis & Azure
* `#15245 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15245>`__: MAINT: only add --std=c99 where needed
* `#15246 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15246>`__: BUG: lib: Fix handling of integer arrays by gradient.
* `#15247 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15247>`__: MAINT: Do not use private Python function in testing
* `#15250 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/15250>`__: REL: Prepare for the NumPy 1.18.1 release.
