.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.19.1 Release Notes
==========================

NumPy 1.19.1 fixes several bugs found in the 1.19.0 release, replaces several
functions deprecated in the upcoming Python-3.9 release, has improved support
for AIX, and has a number of development related updates to keep CI working
with recent upstream changes.

This release supports Python 3.6-3.8. Cython >= 0.29.21 needs to be used when
building with Python 3.9 for testing purposes.


Contributors
============

A total of 15 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Abhinav Reddy +
* Anirudh Subramanian
* Antonio Larrosa +
* Charles Harris
* Chunlin Fang
* Eric Wieser
* Etienne Guesnet +
* Kevin Sheppard
* Matti Picus
* Raghuveer Devulapalli
* Roman Yurchak
* Ross Barnowski
* Sayed Adel
* Sebastian Berg
* Tyler Reddy


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 25 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#16649 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16649>`__: MAINT, CI: disable Shippable cache
* `#16652 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16652>`__: MAINT: Replace `PyUString_GET_SIZE` with `PyUnicode_GetLength`.
* `#16654 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16654>`__: REL: Fix outdated docs link
* `#16656 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16656>`__: BUG: raise IEEE exception on AIX
* `#16672 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16672>`__: BUG: Fix bug in AVX complex absolute while processing array of...
* `#16693 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16693>`__: TST: Add extra debugging information to CPU features detection
* `#16703 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16703>`__: BLD: Add CPU entry for Emscripten / WebAssembly
* `#16705 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16705>`__: TST: Disable Python 3.9-dev testing.
* `#16714 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16714>`__: MAINT: Disable use_hugepages in case of ValueError
* `#16724 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16724>`__: BUG: Fix PyArray_SearchSorted signature.
* `#16768 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16768>`__: MAINT: Fixes for deprecated functions in scalartypes.c.src
* `#16772 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16772>`__: MAINT: Remove unneeded call to PyUnicode_READY
* `#16776 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16776>`__: MAINT: Fix deprecated functions in scalarapi.c
* `#16779 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16779>`__: BLD, ENH: Add RPATH support for AIX
* `#16780 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16780>`__: BUG: Fix default fallback in genfromtxt
* `#16784 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16784>`__: BUG: Added missing return after raising error in methods.c
* `#16795 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16795>`__: BLD: update cython to 0.29.21
* `#16832 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16832>`__: MAINT: setuptools 49.2.0 emits a warning, avoid it
* `#16872 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16872>`__: BUG: Validate output size in bin- and multinomial
* `#16875 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16875>`__: BLD, MAINT: Pin setuptools
* `#16904 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16904>`__: DOC: Reconstruct Testing Guideline.
* `#16905 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16905>`__: TST, BUG: Re-raise MemoryError exception in test_large_zip's...
* `#16906 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16906>`__: BUG,DOC: Fix bad MPL kwarg.
* `#16916 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16916>`__: BUG: Fix string/bytes to complex assignment
* `#16922 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16922>`__: REL: Prepare for NumPy 1.19.1 release
