.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.19.2 Release Notes
==========================

NumPy 1.19.2 fixes several bugs, prepares for the upcoming Cython 3.x release.
and pins setuptools to keep distutils working while upstream modifications are
ongoing. The aarch64 wheels are built with the latest manylinux2014 release
that fixes the problem of differing page sizes used by different linux distros.

This release supports Python 3.6-3.8. Cython >= 0.29.21 needs to be used when
building with Python 3.9 for testing purposes.

There is a known problem with Windows 10 version=2004 and OpenBLAS svd that we
are trying to debug. If you are running that Windows version you should use a
NumPy version that links to the MKL library, earlier Windows versions are fine.

Improvements
============

Add NumPy declarations for Cython 3.0 and later
-----------------------------------------------
The pxd declarations for Cython 3.0 were improved to avoid using deprecated
NumPy C-API features.  Extension modules built with Cython 3.0+ that use NumPy
can now set the C macro ``NPY_NO_DEPRECATED_API=NPY_1_7_API_VERSION`` to avoid
C compiler warnings about deprecated API usage.

Contributors
============

A total of 8 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Charles Harris
* Matti Picus
* Pauli Virtanen
* Philippe Ombredanne +
* Sebastian Berg
* Stefan Behnel +
* Stephan Loyd +
* Zac Hatfield-Dodds

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 9 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#16959 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16959>`__: TST: Change aarch64 to arm64 in travis.yml.
* `#16998 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/16998>`__: MAINT: Configure hypothesis in ``np.test()`` for determinism,...
* `#17000 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17000>`__: BLD: pin setuptools < 49.2.0
* `#17015 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17015>`__: ENH: Add NumPy declarations to be used by Cython 3.0+
* `#17125 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17125>`__: BUG: Remove non-threadsafe sigint handling from fft calculation
* `#17243 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17243>`__: BUG: core: fix ilp64 blas dot/vdot/... for strides > int32 max
* `#17244 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17244>`__: DOC: Use SPDX license expressions with correct license
* `#17245 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17245>`__: DOC: Fix the link to the quick-start in the old API functions
* `#17272 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17272>`__: BUG: fix pickling of arrays larger than 2GiB
