.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.21.3 Release Notes
==========================

NumPy 1.21.3 is a maintenance release that fixes a few bugs discovered after
1.21.2. It also provides 64 bit Python 3.10.0 wheels. Note a few oddities about
Python 3.10:

* There are no 32 bit wheels for Windows, Mac, or Linux.
* The Mac Intel builds are only available in universal2 wheels.

The Python versions supported in this release are 3.7-3.10. If you want to
compile your own version using gcc-11, you will need to use gcc-11.2+ to avoid
problems.

Contributors
============

A total of 7 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Aaron Meurer
* Bas van Beek
* Charles Harris
* Developer-Ecosystem-Engineering +
* Kevin Sheppard
* Sebastian Berg
* Warren Weckesser

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 8 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#19745 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/19745>`__: ENH: Add dtype-support to 3 ```generic``/``ndarray`` methods
* `#19955 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/19955>`__: BUG: Resolve Divide by Zero on Apple silicon + test failures...
* `#19958 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/19958>`__: MAINT: Mark type-check-only ufunc subclasses as ufunc aliases...
* `#19994 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/19994>`__: BUG: np.tan(np.inf) test failure
* `#20080 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20080>`__: BUG: Correct incorrect advance in PCG with emulated int128
* `#20081 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20081>`__: BUG: Fix NaT handling in the PyArray_CompareFunc for datetime...
* `#20082 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20082>`__: DOC: Ensure that we add documentation also as to the dict for...
* `#20106 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20106>`__: BUG: core: result_type(0, np.timedelta64(4)) would seg. fault.
