.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 1.26.2 Release Notes
==========================

NumPy 1.26.2 is a maintenance release that fixes bugs and regressions
discovered after the 1.26.1 release. The 1.26.release series is the last
planned minor release series before NumPy 2.0. The Python versions supported by
this release are 3.9-3.12.


Contributors
============

A total of 13 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* @stefan6419846
* @thalassemia +
* Andrew Nelson
* Charles Bousseau +
* Charles Harris
* Marcel Bargull +
* Mark Mentovai +
* Matti Picus
* Nathan Goldbaum
* Ralf Gommers
* Sayed Adel
* Sebastian Berg
* William Ayd +


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 25 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#24814 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24814>`__: MAINT: align test_dispatcher s390x targets with _umath_tests_mtargets
* `#24929 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24929>`__: MAINT: prepare 1.26.x for further development
* `#24955 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24955>`__: ENH: Add Cython enumeration for NPY_FR_GENERIC
* `#24962 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24962>`__: REL: Remove Python upper version from the release branch
* `#24971 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24971>`__: BLD: Use the correct Python interpreter when running tempita.py
* `#24972 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24972>`__: MAINT: Remove unhelpful error replacements from ``import_array()``
* `#24977 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24977>`__: BLD: use classic linker on macOS, the new one in XCode 15 has...
* `#25003 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25003>`__: BLD: musllinux_aarch64 [wheel build]
* `#25043 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25043>`__: MAINT: Update mailmap
* `#25049 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25049>`__: MAINT: Update meson build infrastructure.
* `#25071 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25071>`__: MAINT: Split up .github/workflows to match main
* `#25083 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25083>`__: BUG: Backport fix build on ppc64 when the baseline set to Power9...
* `#25093 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25093>`__: BLD: Fix features.h detection for Meson builds [1.26.x Backport]
* `#25095 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25095>`__: BUG: Avoid intp conversion regression in Cython 3 (backport)
* `#25107 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25107>`__: CI: remove obsolete jobs, and move macOS and conda Azure jobs...
* `#25108 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25108>`__: CI: Add linux_qemu action and remove travis testing.
* `#25112 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25112>`__: MAINT: Update .spin/cmds.py from main.
* `#25113 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25113>`__: DOC: Visually divide main license and bundled licenses in wheels
* `#25115 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25115>`__: MAINT: Add missing ``noexcept`` to shuffle helpers
* `#25116 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25116>`__: DOC: Fix license identifier for OpenBLAS
* `#25117 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25117>`__: BLD: improve detection of Netlib libblas/libcblas/liblapack
* `#25118 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25118>`__: MAINT: Make bitfield integers unsigned
* `#25119 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25119>`__: BUG: Make n a long int for np.random.multinomial
* `#25120 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25120>`__: BLD: change default of the ``allow-noblas`` option to true.
* `#25121 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/25121>`__: BUG: ensure passing ``np.dtype`` to itself doesn't crash

