.. currentmodule:: numpy

==========================
NumPy 2.5.0 Release Notes
==========================

Numpy 2.5.0 is a transitional release. It drops support for Python 3.11,
marking the end of distutils, and expires a large number of deprecations made
in the 2.0.x release. It also improves free threading and brings sorting into
compliance with the array-api standard with the addition of descending sorts.
There is also a fair amount of preparation for Python 3.15, which will be
supported starting with the first rc.

This release supports Python versions 3.12-3.14.


Highlights
==========

* Distutils has been removed,
* Many expired deprecations, see below,
* Many new deprecations, see below,
* Many static typing improvements,
* Improved support for free threading,
* Support for descending sorts.

See New Features below for other additions.


Deprecations
============

* ``numpy.char.chararray`` is deprecated. Use an ``ndarray`` with a string or
  bytes dtype instead.

  (`gh-30605 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30605>`__)

* ``numpy.take`` now correctly checks if the result can be cast to the provided
  ``out=out`` under the same-kind rule.  A ``DeprecationWarning`` is given now
  when this check fails.  Previously, ``take`` incorrectly checked if ``out``
  could be cast to the result (the wrong direction).  This deprecation also
  affects ``compress`` and possibly other functions.  (Future versions of NumPy
  may tighten the casting check further.)

  (`gh-30615 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30615>`__)

* The ``numpy.char.[as]array`` functions are deprecated. Use an
  ``numpy.[as]array`` with a string or bytes dtype instead.

  (`gh-30802 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30802>`__)

* Setting the dtype attribute is deprecated because mutating an array is unsafe
  if an array is shared, especially by multiple threads.  As an alternative,
  you can create a view with a new dtype via ``array.view(dtype=new_dtype)``.

  (`gh-29244 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/29244>`__)

* Setting the ``shape`` attribute is deprecated because mutating an array is
  unsafe if an array is shared, especially by multiple threads.  As an
  alternative, you can create a new view via ``np.reshape`` or ``np.ndarray.reshape``.
  For example: ``x = np.arange(15); x = np.reshape(x, (3, 5))``. To ensure
  that no copy is made from the data, one can use ``np.reshape(..., copy=False)``.

  While setting the shape on an array is discouraged, for cases where it is
  difficult to work around, e.g., in ``__array_finalize__``, it is possible
  with the private method ``np.ndarray._set_shape``.

  (`gh-29536 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/29536>`__)

* Using the ``generic`` unit in ``numpy.timedelta64`` is deprecated since this
  can lead to unexpected behavior such as non-transitive comparison, see
  `gh-28287 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/28287>`__ for details.  As
  an alternative, specify an explicit unit such as ``'s'`` (seconds) or ``'D'``
  (days) when constructing ``numpy.timedelta64``.  Due to this change, operations
  that implicitly rely on the ``generic`` unit are also deprecated.  For
  example::

    arr = np.array([1, 2, 3], dtype="m8[s]")

    # `1` is implicitly converted to generic timedelta64
    arr + 1

  (`gh-29619 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/29619>`__)

* Resizing a Numpy array in place is deprecated since mutating an array is
  unsafe if an array is shared, especially by multiple threads.  As an
  alternative, you can create a resized array via ``np.resize``.

  (`gh-30181 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30181>`__)

* ``numpy.fix`` is deprecated, use ``numpy.trunc`` instead. It is faster and
  follows the Array API standard. Both functions provide identical
  functionality: rounding array elements towards zero.

  (`gh-30644 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30644>`__)

* ``numpy.ma.round_`` is deprecated.  ``numpy.ma.round`` can be used as a
  replacement.

  (`gh-30738 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30738>`__)

* ``numpy.typename`` is deprecated because the names returned by it were
  outdated and inconsistent.  ``numpy.dtype.name`` can be used as a
  replacement.

  (`gh-30774 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30774>`__)

* Inputs other than integers are deprecated for ``numpy.triu_indices`` and
  ``numpy.tril_indices``.  Non-integer values for the ``M``, ``k`` and ``N``
  parameters of ``numpy.tri`` are deprecated.  Non-integer values for the ``k``
  parameter of both ``numpy.tril_indices_from`` and ``numpy.triu_indices_from``
  are deprecated.

  (`gh-30869 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30869>`__)

* Deprecations in custom ``dtype`` property and ``__array_finalize__``.

  Previously ``arr.view(dtype=new_dtype)`` called ``arr.dtype = new_dtype``
  also for subclasses, i.e., the attribute setting.  That path is now
  deprecated and refined, meaning that even subclasses that do not see this
  ``DeprecationWarning`` may wish to update their code.

  A subclass that does any ``dtype`` specific logic (i.e. verifying the dtype
  in ``__array_finalize__`` or has a ``dtype`` property) should now:

  * Set ``_set_dtype = None`` in which case ``arr.view(dtype=new_dtype)``
    will call ``__array_finalize__`` with the new dtype, ensuring that
    any validation ``__array_finalize__`` will run is done.
  * Or, for a quick fix, define ``_set_dtype`` as a function (calling
    ``ndarray._set_dtype()`` to avoid ``DeprecationWarnings``.
    (Future versions might migrate towards the ``_set_dtype = None`` path.)

  Ideally, follow NumPy's deprecation to prevent ``dtype`` mutation by users.
  The use of ``ndarray._set_dtype()`` may be necessary for some subclass
  finalization patterns, but should otherwise be avoided.

  (`gh-31293 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31293>`__)


Expired deprecations
====================

* ``numpy.distutils`` has been removed

  (`gh-30340 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30340>`__)

* Passing ``None`` as dtype to ``np.finfo`` will now raise a ``TypeError``
  (deprecated since 1.25)

  (`gh-30460 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30460>`__)

* ``numpy.cross`` no longer supports 2-dimensional vectors.
  (Deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30461 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30461>`__)

* ``numpy._core.numerictypes.maximum_sctype`` has been removed.
  (deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30462 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30462>`__)

* ``numpy.row_stack`` has been removed in favor of ``numpy.vstack``.
  (deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30463 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30463>`__)

* ``get_array_wrap`` has been removed.
  (deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30463 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30463>`__)

* ``recfromtxt`` and ``recfromcsv`` have been removed from ``numpy.lib._npyio``
  in favor of ``numpy.genfromtxt``.
  (deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30467 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30467>`__)

* The ``numpy.chararray`` re-export of ``numpy.char.chararray`` has been removed.
  (deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30604 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30604>`__)

* ``bincount`` now raises a ``TypeError`` for non-integer inputs.
  (deprecated since 2.1)

  (`gh-30610 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30610>`__)

* The ``numpy.lib.math`` alias for the standard library ``math`` module has
  been removed.
  (deprecated since 1.25)

  (`gh-30612 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30612>`__)

* Data type alias ``'a'`` was removed in favor of ``'S'``.
  (deprecated since 2.0)

  (`gh-30613 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30613>`__)

* ``_add_newdoc_ufunc(ufunc, newdoc)`` has been removed in favor of
  ``ufunc.__doc__ = newdoc``.
  (deprecated since 2.2)

  (`gh-30614 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30614>`__)


Compatibility notes
===================

``linalg.eig`` and ``linalg.eigvals`` now always return complex arrays
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Previously, the return values depended on whether the eigenvalues happen to lie
on the real line (which, for a general, non-symmetric matrix, is not
guaranteed).

This change makes consistent what was a value-dependent result. To retain the
previous behavior, do::

   w = eigvals(a)
   if np.any(w.imag == 0):  # this is what NumPy used to do
       w = w.real

If your matrix is symmetrix/hermitian, use ``eigh`` and ``eigvalsh`` instead of
``eig`` and ``eigvals``. These are guaranteed to return real values. A common
case is covariance matrices, which are symmetric and positive definite by
construction.

(`gh-30411 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30411>`__)

MSVC support
------------
NumPy now requires minimum MSVC 19.35 toolchain version on Windows platforms.
This corresponds to Visual Studio 2022 version 17.5 Preview 2 or newer.

(`gh-30489 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30489>`__)

Cython support
--------------
NumPy's Cython headers (accessed via ``cimport numpy``) now require Cython 3.0
or newer to build. If you try to compile a project that depends on NumPy's
Cython headers using Cython 0.29 or older, you will see a message like this::

    Error compiling Cython file:
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    ...
    # versions.
    #
    # See __init__.cython-30.pxd for the real Cython header
    #

    DEF err = int('Build aborted: the NumPy Cython headers require Cython 3.0.0 or newer.')
      ------------------------------------------------------------

      /path/to/site-packages/numpy/__init__.pxd:11:13: Error in compile-time expression:
      ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10: 
      'Build aborted: the NumPy Cython headers require Cython 3.0.0 or newer.'


Note that the invalid integer is not a bug in NumPy - we are intentionally
generating this error to avoid triggering a more obscure error later in the
build when an older Cython version tries to use a Cython feature that was not
available in the old Cython version.

(`gh-30770 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30770>`__)

``numpy.where`` no longer truncates Python integers
---------------------------------------------------

Previously, if the ``x`` or ``y`` argument of ``numpy.where`` was a Python
integer that was out of range of the output type, it would be silently
truncated.  Now, an ``OverflowError`` will be raised instead.

This change also applies to the underlying C API function ``PyArray_Where``.

(`gh-30803 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30803>`__)

Default memory allocator change
-------------------------------
NumPy now uses ``PyMem_RawMalloc`` and ``PyMem_RawFree`` as the default memory
allocator, instead of system's ``malloc`` and ``free`` directly.

(`gh-30846 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30846>`__)

``from_dlpack`` raises ``BufferError`` instead of ``RuntimeError``
------------------------------------------------------------------
``np.from_dlpack`` now raises ``BufferError`` instead of ``RuntimeError`` when
the incoming DLPack tensor has an unsupported device, dtype, or exceeds the
maximum number of dimensions. This aligns with the DLPack and Array API
specifications, which recommend ``BufferError`` for data that cannot be
imported.

(`gh-30937 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30937>`__)

Corrections to the BTPE binomial sampler
----------------------------------------
Two independent errors in the Stirling series of the acceptance/rejection step
of the BTPE algorithm used by ``numpy.random.Generator.binomial`` have been
corrected:

* The third and fourth error terms were added rather than subtracted. This sign
  error was inherited from section 5.3 of the original 1988 paper by
  Kachitvichyanukul & Schmeiser, which incorrectly adds all four terms.

* The leading coefficient had a digit-swap typo (``13680`` instead of
  ``13860``) that was introduced in the initial implementation.

As a result, ``Generator.binomial`` and ``Generator.multinomial``, which uses
binomial internally, may now return different samples for the same seed.

The legacy ``numpy.random.RandomState.binomial`` and
``numpy.random.RandomState.multinomial`` are not affected: they preserve the
original (incorrect) behavior, so existing streams remain reproducible.

(`gh-31238 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31238>`__)

``datetime64``/``timedelta64`` arithmetic raises on overflow
------------------------------------------------------------
Addition, subtraction, and integer multiplication of ``datetime64`` and
``timedelta64`` values now raise ``OverflowError`` when the result would
overflow ``int64`` or land on the ``NaT`` sentinel value.  Previously these
operations silently wrapped, often producing a value that was indistinguishable
from ``NaT``.  This matches the overflow checking already performed by
unit-conversion casts.

(`gh-31378 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31378>`__)


C API changes
=============

* It is now possible to register ``"real"`` and ``"imag"`` ArrayMethods via
  ``PyUFunc_AddLoopsFromSpecs``.  These will be used for ``imag`` and ``real``
  and should normally set ``*view_offset`` in their ``resolve_descriptors``
  function to allow the array attributes to return views.

  (`gh-30984 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30984>`__)

* New ``PyDataType_TYPE``, ``PyDataType_KIND``, ``PyDataType_BYTEORDER`` and
  ``PyDataType_TYPEOBJ`` accessor macros to the C API. Together with the other
  accessor macros added for the NumPy 2.0 transition, these allow accessing the
  fields of ``PyArray_Descr`` structs without any direct field accesses.

  (`gh-30994 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30994>`__)

* NumPy now supports the stable ABI for free-threaded Python as described in
  :pep:`803`.

  (`gh-31091 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31091>`__)

* ``PyArray_DescrFromScalar`` now returns the full dtype descriptor for scalars
  of user-defined parametric data types, including any dtype parameters.
  Parameters were previously silently discarded, which could cause incorrect
  results in operations like ``astype`` on scalar objects.  Internally, the
  function now delegates to ``discover_descr_from_pyobject``, which handles
  parametric dtypes correctly.

  (`gh-31067 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31067>`__)


New Features
============

* It is now possible to register user-dtypes for dlpack export and import
  via ``numpy.dtypes.register_dlpack_dtype``. This functionality is meant to
  be used with care by user-dtype authors.

  (`gh-31256 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31256>`__)

Pixi package definitions
------------------------
Pixi package definitions have been added for different kinds
of from-source builds of NumPy. These can be used in
downstream Pixi workspaces via the ``pixi-build`` feature.

Definitions for both ``default`` and AddressSanitizer-instrumented
(``asan``) builds are available in the source code under the
``pixi-packages/`` directory.

``linux-64`` and ``osx-arm64`` platforms are supported.

(`gh-30381 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30381>`__)

``numpy.ndarray`` now supports structural pattern matching
----------------------------------------------------------
``numpy.ndarray`` and its subclasses now have the ``Py_TPFLAGS_SEQUENCE`` flag
set, enabling structural pattern matching (PEP 634) with ``match``/``case``
statements. This also enables Cython to optimize integer indexing operations.
See :ref:``arrays.ndarray.pattern-matching`` for details.

(`gh-30653 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30653>`__)

Added N-D evaluation functions to the polynomial package
--------------------------------------------------------
New functions ``polyvalnd``, ``chebvalnd``, ``legvalnd``, ``hermvalnd``,
``hermevalnd``, and ``lagvalnd`` have been added to evaluate polynomials
in arbitrary dimensions, analogous to the existing 2D and 3D evaluators.

(`gh-30857 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30857>`__)

New "descending" keyword argument for ``numpy.sort`` and ``numpy.argsort``
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Users can now pass the ``descending=True`` keyword argument to ``numpy.sort``
and ``numpy.argsort`` to sort and argsort arrays in descending order. NaN
values, if present, are sorted to the end of the array in both ascending and
descending sorts. This feature is available for all built-in dtypes except
``void``, ``object``, and ``generic``. Note that SIMD optimizations for sorting
are currently not available for descending sorts, so performance may be slower.

(`gh-31345 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31345>`__)


Improvements
============

For ``f2py``, the behaviour of ``intent(inplace)`` has improved.  Previously,
if an input array did not have the right dtype or order, the input array was
modified in-place, changing its dtype and replacing its data by a corrected
copy.  Now, instead, the corrected copy is kept a separate array, which, after
being passed and presumably modified by the fortran routine, is copied back to
the input routine.  The above means one no longer has the risk that
pre-existing views or slices of the input array start pointing to unallocated
memory (at the price of increased overhead for the write-back copy at the end
of the call).

A potential problem would be that one might get very different results if one,
e.g., previously passed in an integer array where a double array was expected:
the writeback to integer would likely give wrong results.  To avoid such
situations, ``intent(inplace)`` will now only allow arrays that have equivalent
type to that used in the fortran routine, i.e., ``dtype.kind`` is the same. For
instance, a routine expecting double would be able to receive float, but would
raise on integer input.

(`gh-29929 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/29929>`__)

``f2py`` modules now show allocatable arrays in ``dir()``
---------------------------------------------------------
Allocatable module variables wrapped by ``f2py`` now appear in ``dir()``
output, matching their accessibility by name.

(`gh-30965 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30965>`__)

``StringDType`` comparisons now correctly handle embedded NULL bytes.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

(`gh-31662 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31662>`__)


Performance improvements and changes
====================================

Improved performance of ``numpy.searchsorted``
----------------------------------------------
The C++ binary search implementation used by ``numpy.searchsorted`` now has a
much better performance when searching for multiple keys. The new
implementation batches binary search steps across all keys to leverage cache
locality and out-of-order execution. Benchmarks show the new implementation can
be up to 20 times faster for hundreds of thousands keys while single-key
performance remains comparable to previous versions.

(`gh-30517 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30517>`__)

Improved scaling of ufuncs on free-threading
--------------------------------------------

NumPy's ufuncs now scale significantly better on free-threading builds
of CPython due to the following optimizations:

* **Lock-free dispatch table:** The ufuncs dispatch table is now implemented as
  a lock-free concurrent hash map, allowing multiple threads to call ufuncs
  without contention.

* **Immortal shared objects:** Certain shared objects, such as global memory
  handlers, have been made immortal. This effectively reduces reference
  counting contention across threads.

* **Optimized memory allocation:** NumPy now utilizes ``PyMem_RawMalloc`` and
  ``PyMem_RawFree`` for memory allocation. On Python 3.15 and newer, this
  leverages ``mimalloc`` and significantly reduces memory allocation overhead
  in multi-threaded workloads.

(`gh-30846 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30846>`__)

Faster reductions on small/medium contiguous arrays
---------------------------------------------------
``numpy.sum``, ``numpy.prod``, ``numpy.any``, ``numpy.all``, and other
reductions with an identity value now use a fast path when the input is a
contiguous, aligned, non-object array and the reduction covers all axes
(``axis=None``) with no special arguments. Typical speedup is ~1.3x on small
arrays; ``numpy.any`` / ``numpy.all`` on contiguous boolean arrays can see
speedup up to 1.9x.

(`gh-31274 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31274>`__)


Typing improvements and changes
===============================

``numpy.linalg`` typing improvements and preliminary shape-typing support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Input and output dtypes for ``numpy.linalg`` functions are now more precise.
Several of these functions also gain preliminary shape-typing support while
remaining backward compatible.  For example, the return type of
``numpy.linalg.matmul`` now depends on the shape-type of its inputs, or fall
back to the backward-compatible return type if the shape-types are unknown at
type-checking time. Because of limitations in Python's type system and current
type-checkers, shape-typing cannot cover every situation and is often only
implemented for the most common lower-rank cases.

(`gh-30480 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30480>`__)

``numpy.ma`` typing annotations
-------------------------------
The ``numpy.ma`` module is now fully covered by typing annotations.  This
includes annotations for masked arrays, masks, and various functions and
methods.  With this, NumPy has achieved 100% typing coverage across all its
submodules.

(`gh-30566 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30566>`__)

Shape-typing support for many functions and methods
---------------------------------------------------
Many functions and methods now have shape-aware return type annotations.
Type-checkers can now infer the number of dimensions of the returned array
through common operations. For example, ``np.linspace(0, 1)`` is now typed as a
1-d ``float64`` array, and ``np.sum(x, keepdims=True)`` has the same number of
dimensions as ``x``.

This covers ``numpy.linalg`` functions, array creation functions (like
``asarray``, ``from{buffer,string,file,iter,regex}``), range functions
(``linspace``, ``logspace``, ``geomspace``), aggregation functions and methods
(``sum``, ``mean``, ``std``, ``var``, ``min``, ``max``, ``all``, ``any``,
etc.), sorting (``sort``, ``argsort``, ``argpartition``), cumulative operations
(``cumsum``, ``cumprod``, etc.), set operations (``unique_values``,
``intersect1d``, ``union1d``, etc.), and various other functions including
``nonzero``, ``transpose``, ``diagonal``, ``atleast_{1,2,3}d``, ``clip``,
``round``, ``inner``, ``bincount``, and ``fft.fftfreq``. Several of these also
gained more precise return dtype annotations as part of this work.

Shape-typing is still a work-in-progress, so coverage is not yet complete.
Because of limitations in Python's type system and current type-checkers,
shape-typing is often only implemented for the most common lower-rank cases.

(`gh-31172 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31172>`__)

``numpy.fft`` typing improvements and preliminary shape-typing support
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The ``numpy.fft`` functions now support non-``float64``/``complex128`` dtypes
and gain preliminary shape-typing support. For example, the return type of
``numpy.fft.fft`` now depends on the shape-type of its inputs, falling back to
the backward-compatible return type when the shape-types are unknown at
type-checking time.

(`gh-31226 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31226>`__)


Changes
=======

Structured array copies now use ``memcpy`` for contiguous dtypes
----------------------------------------------------------------
Copying structured arrays with identical dtypes now uses ``memcpy`` instead of
field-by-field transfer when the dtype has a contiguous layout (no gaps between
fields). A new ``NPY_NOT_TRIVIALLY_COPYABLE`` dtype flag is set on structured
dtypes that have gaps in their memory layout, such as those created with
explicit ``offsets`` or via multi-field indexing. Only these dtypes continue to
use the slower field-by-field copy.

This means that padding bytes in contiguous structured dtypes (e.g. those
created without explicit ``offsets``) may now be copied as part of the
``memcpy``, whereas previously they were left untouched. Code that relies on
padding bytes being preserved during structured array copies may be affected.

(`gh-29270 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/29270>`__)

``numpy.ctypeslib.as_ctypes`` now does not support scalar types
----------------------------------------------------------------
The function ``numpy.ctypeslib.as_ctypes`` has been updated to only accept
``numpy.ndarray``.  Passing a scalar type (e.g., ``numpy.int32(5)``) will now
raise a ``TypeError``.  This change was made to avoid the issue
`gh-30354 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/30354>`__ and to enforce the
readonly nature of scalar types in NumPy.  The previous behavior relied on
undocumented implicit temporary arrays and was not well-defined.  Users who
need to convert scalar types to ctypes should first convert them to an array
(e.g., ``numpy.asarray``) before passing them to ``numpy.ctypeslib.as_ctypes``.

(`gh-30538 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30538>`__)

``__array_interface__`` changes on scalars
------------------------------------------
Scalars now export the ``__array_interface__`` directly rather than including
an array copy as a ``__ref`` entry. This means that scalars are now exported as
read-only while they previously exported as writeable.  The path via ``__ref``
was undocumented and not consistently used even within NumPy itself.

(`gh-30538 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30538>`__)

``meshgrid`` now always returns a tuple
---------------------------------------
``np.meshgrid`` previously used to return a list when ``sparse`` was true and
``copy`` was false.  Now, it always returns a tuple regardless of the
arguments.

(`gh-30707 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30707>`__)

``numpy.triu_indices`` now accepts ``unsigned integers``
--------------------------------------------------------
``numpy.triu_indices`` previously used to error in some cases when
``unsigned integers`` were given as arguments. Now, it accepts them in all
cases.

(`gh-30869 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30869>`__)

``object`` dtype in ``.real`` and ``.imag`` and related functions
-----------------------------------------------------------------
The array attributes ``.real`` and ``.imag`` now behave differently for object
arrays and return ``getattr(element, "real", element)`` or ``getattr(element,
"imag", 0)`` elementwise.  Additionally, the return for both is now read-only
to avoid possible in-place changes having no effect.

This change also affects ``np.isreal()`` which uses ``arr.imag``.

Previously, ``.imag`` always returned ``0`` while ``.real`` returned the
original array unmodified.  The new behavior now returnes the correct values
for complex Python objects but may also lead to surprises for example if
``element.real()`` is a method and not a property.

(`gh-30984 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/30984>`__)

NumPy's internal memory allocations now use ``PyMem_RawMalloc``
---------------------------------------------------------------
NumPy's internal memory allocations now use ``PyMem_RawMalloc`` instead of
``malloc`` and can be tracked by ``tracemalloc``.

(`gh-31503 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/31503>`__)

