* Alias ``np.float_`` has been removed. Use ``np.float64`` instead.

* Alias ``np.complex_`` has been removed. Use ``np.complex128`` instead.

* Alias ``np.longfloat`` has been removed. Use ``np.longdouble`` instead.

* Alias ``np.singlecomplex`` has been removed. Use ``np.complex64`` instead.

* Alias ``np.cfloat`` has been removed. Use ``np.complex128`` instead.

* Alias ``np.longcomplex`` has been removed. Use ``np.clongdouble`` instead.

* Alias ``np.clongfloat`` has been removed. Use ``np.clongdouble`` instead.

* Alias ``np.string_`` has been removed. Use ``np.bytes_`` instead.

* Alias ``np.unicode_`` has been removed. Use ``np.str_`` instead.

* Alias ``np.Inf`` has been removed. Use ``np.inf`` instead.

* Alias ``np.Infinity`` has been removed. Use ``np.inf`` instead.

* Alias ``np.NaN`` has been removed. Use ``np.nan`` instead.

* Alias ``np.infty`` has been removed. Use ``np.inf`` instead.

* Alias ``np.mat`` has been removed. Use ``np.asmatrix`` instead.

* ``np.issubclass_`` has been removed. Use ``issubclass`` builtin instead.

* ``np.asfarray`` has been removed. Use ``np.asarray`` with a proper dtype instead.

* ``np.set_string_function`` has been removed. Use ``np.set_printoptions``
  instead with a formatter for custom printing of NumPy objects.

* ``np.tracemalloc_domain`` is now only available from ``np.lib``.

* ``np.recfromcsv`` and ``recfromtxt`` are now only available from ``np.lib.npyio``.

* ``np.issctype``, ``np.maximum_sctype``, ``np.obj2sctype``, ``np.sctype2char``,
  ``np.sctypes``, ``np.issubsctype`` were all removed from the
  main namespace without replacement, as they where niche members.

* Deprecated ``np.deprecate`` and ``np.deprecate_with_doc`` has been removed 
  from the main namespace. Use ``DeprecationWarning`` instead.

* Deprecated ``np.safe_eval`` has been removed from the main namespace. 
  Use ``ast.literal_eval`` instead.
