
Contributors
============

A total of 12 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Andras Deak +
* Bob Eldering +
* Charles Harris
* Daniel Hrisca +
* Eric Wieser
* Joshua Leahy +
* Julian Taylor
* Michael Seifert
* Pauli Virtanen
* Ralf Gommers
* Roland Kaufmann
* Warren Weckesser

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 19 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#9240 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9240>`__: DOC: BLD: fix lots of Sphinx warnings/errors.
* `#9255 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9255>`__: Revert "DEP: Raise TypeError for subtract(bool_, bool_)."
* `#9261 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9261>`__: BUG: don't elide into readonly and updateifcopy temporaries for...
* `#9262 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9262>`__: BUG: fix missing keyword rename for common block in numpy.f2py
* `#9263 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9263>`__: BUG: handle resize of 0d array
* `#9267 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9267>`__: DOC: update f2py front page and some doc build metadata.
* `#9299 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9299>`__: BUG: Fix Intel compilation on Unix.
* `#9317 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9317>`__: BUG: fix wrong ndim used in empty where check
* `#9319 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9319>`__: BUG: Make extensions compilable with MinGW on Py2.7
* `#9339 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9339>`__: BUG: Prevent crash if ufunc doc string is null
* `#9340 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9340>`__: BUG: umath: un-break ufunc where= when no out= is given
* `#9371 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9371>`__: DOC: Add isnat/positive ufunc to documentation
* `#9372 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9372>`__: BUG: Fix error in fromstring function from numpy.core.records...
* `#9373 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9373>`__: BUG: ')' is printed at the end pointer of the buffer in numpy.f2py.
* `#9374 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9374>`__: DOC: Create NumPy 1.13.1 release notes.
* `#9376 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9376>`__: BUG: Prevent hang traversing ufunc userloop linked list
* `#9377 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9377>`__: DOC: Use x1 and x2 in the heaviside docstring.
* `#9378 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9378>`__: DOC: Add $PARAMS to the isnat docstring
* `#9379 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/9379>`__: DOC: Update the 1.13.1 release notes
