
Contributors
============

A total of 16 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Andreas Schwab
* Bharat Raghunathan +
* Bran +
* Charles Harris
* Eric Wieser
* Jakub Wilk
* Kevin Sheppard
* Marten van Kerkwijk
* Matti Picus
* Paul Ivanov
* Ralf Gommers
* Sebastian Berg
* Tyler Reddy
* Warren Weckesser
* Yu Feng
* adeak +

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 26 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#13072 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13072>`__: BUG: Fixes to numpy.distutils.Configuration.get_version (#13056)
* `#13082 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13082>`__: BUG: Fix errors in string formatting while producing an error
* `#13083 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13083>`__: BUG: Convert fortran flags in environment variable
* `#13084 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13084>`__: BUG: Remove error-prone borrowed reference handling
* `#13085 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13085>`__: BUG: Add error checks when converting integers to datetime types
* `#13091 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13091>`__: BUG: Remove our patched version of `distutils.split_quoted`
* `#13141 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13141>`__: BUG: Fix testsuite failures on ppc and riscv
* `#13142 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13142>`__: BUG: Fix parameter validity checks in ``random.choice``
* `#13143 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13143>`__: BUG: Ensure linspace works on object input.
* `#13144 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13144>`__: BLD: fix include list for sdist building.
* `#13145 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13145>`__: BUG: __array_interface__ offset was always ignored
* `#13274 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13274>`__: MAINT: f2py: Add a cast to avoid a compiler warning.
* `#13275 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13275>`__: BUG, MAINT: fix reference count error on invalid input to ndarray.flat
* `#13276 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13276>`__: ENH: Cast covariance to double in random mvnormal
* `#13278 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13278>`__: BUG: Fix null pointer dereference in PyArray_DTypeFromObjectHelper
* `#13339 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13339>`__: BUG: Use C call to sysctlbyname for AVX detection on MacOS.
* `#13340 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13340>`__: BUG: Fix crash when calling savetxt on a padded array
* `#13341 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13341>`__: BUG: ufunc.at iteration variable size fix
* `#13342 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13342>`__: DOC: Add as_ctypes_type to the documentation
* `#13350 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13350>`__: BUG: Return the coefficients array directly
* `#13351 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13351>`__: BUG/MAINT: Tidy typeinfo.h and .c
* `#13359 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13359>`__: BUG: Make allow_pickle=False the default for loading
* `#13360 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13360>`__: DOC: fix some doctest failures
* `#13363 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13363>`__: BUG/MAINT: Tidy typeinfo.h and .c
* `#13381 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13381>`__: BLD: address mingw-w64 issue. Follow-up to gh-9977
* `#13382 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13382>`__: REL: Prepare for the NumPy release.
