
Contributors
============

A total of 16 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Antoine Pitrou
* Arcesio Castaneda Medina +
* Charles Harris
* Chris Markiewicz +
* Christoph Gohlke
* Christopher J. Markiewicz +
* Daniel Hrisca +
* EelcoPeacs +
* Eric Wieser
* Kevin Sheppard
* Matti Picus
* OBATA Akio +
* Ralf Gommers
* Sebastian Berg
* Stephan Hoyer
* Tyler Reddy

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 32 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#12754 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12754>`__: BUG: Check paths are unicode, bytes or path-like
* `#12767 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12767>`__: ENH: add mm->q floordiv
* `#12768 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12768>`__: ENH: port np.core.overrides to C for speed
* `#12769 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12769>`__: ENH: Add np.ctypeslib.as_ctypes_type(dtype), improve `np.ctypeslib.as_ctypes`
* `#12771 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12771>`__: BUG: Ensure probabilities are not NaN in choice
* `#12772 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12772>`__: MAINT: add warning to numpy.distutils for LDFLAGS append behavior.
* `#12773 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12773>`__: ENH: add "max difference" messages to np.testing.assert_array_equal...
* `#12774 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12774>`__: BUG: Fix incorrect/missing reference cleanups found using valgrind
* `#12776 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12776>`__: BUG,TST: Remove the misguided `run_command` that wraps subprocess
* `#12777 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12777>`__: DOC, TST: Clean up matplotlib imports
* `#12781 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12781>`__: BUG: Fix reference counting for subarrays containing objects
* `#12782 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12782>`__: BUG: Ensure failing memory allocations are reported
* `#12784 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12784>`__: BUG: Fix leak of void scalar buffer info
* `#12788 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12788>`__: MAINT: Change the order of checking for local file.
* `#12808 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12808>`__: BUG: loosen kwargs requirements in ediff1d
* `#12809 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12809>`__: DOC: clarify the extend of __array_function__ support in NumPy...
* `#12810 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12810>`__: BUG: Check that dtype or formats arguments are not None.
* `#12811 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12811>`__: BUG: fix f2py problem to build wrappers using PGI's Fortran
* `#12812 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12812>`__: BUG: double decref of dtype in failure codepath. Test and fix
* `#12813 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12813>`__: BUG, DOC: test, fix that f2py.compile accepts str and bytes,...
* `#12816 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12816>`__: BUG: resolve writeback in arr_insert failure paths
* `#12820 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12820>`__: ENH: Add mm->qm divmod
* `#12843 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12843>`__: BUG: fix to check before apply `shlex.split`
* `#12844 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12844>`__: BUG: Fix SystemError when pickling datetime64 array with pickle5
* `#12845 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12845>`__: BUG: Fix rounding of denormals in double and float to half casts.
* `#12868 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12868>`__: TEST: pin mingw version
* `#12869 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12869>`__: BUG: ndarrays pickled by 1.16 cannot be loaded by 1.15.4 and...
* `#12870 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12870>`__: BUG: do not Py_DECREF NULL pointer
* `#12890 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12890>`__: ENH: add _dtype_ctype to namespace for freeze analysis
* `#12891 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12891>`__: BUG: fail if old multiarray module detected
* `#12898 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12898>`__: BUG: Do not double-quote arguments passed on to the linker
* `#12899 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12899>`__: BUG: Do not insert extra double quote into preprocessor macros
* `#12902 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12902>`__: DOC: Prepare for 1.16.1 release.
