
Contributors
============

A total of 18 people contributed to this release.  People with a "+" by their
names contributed a patch for the first time.

* Alexander Shadchin
* Allan Haldane
* Bruce Merry +
* Charles Harris
* Colin Snyder +
* Dan Allan +
* Emile +
* Eric Wieser
* Grey Baker +
* Maksim Shabunin +
* Marten van Kerkwijk
* Matti Picus
* Peter Andreas Entschev +
* Ralf Gommers
* Richard Harris +
* Sebastian Berg
* Sergei Lebedev +
* Stephan Hoyer

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 23 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#13742 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13742>`__: ENH: Add project URLs to setup.py
* `#13823 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13823>`__: TEST, ENH: fix tests and ctypes code for PyPy
* `#13845 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13845>`__: BUG: use npy_intp instead of int for indexing array
* `#13867 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13867>`__: TST: Ignore DeprecationWarning during nose imports
* `#13905 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13905>`__: BUG: Fix use-after-free in boolean indexing
* `#13933 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13933>`__: MAINT/BUG/DOC: Fix errors in _add_newdocs
* `#13984 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13984>`__: BUG: fix byte order reversal for datetime64[ns]
* `#13994 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/13994>`__: MAINT,BUG: Use nbytes to also catch empty descr during allocation
* `#14042 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14042>`__: BUG: np.array cleared errors occured in PyMemoryView_FromObject
* `#14043 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14043>`__: BUG: Fixes for Undefined Behavior Sanitizer (UBSan) errors.
* `#14044 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14044>`__: BUG: ensure that casting to/from structured is properly checked.
* `#14045 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14045>`__: MAINT: fix histogram*d dispatchers
* `#14046 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14046>`__: BUG: further fixup to histogram2d dispatcher.
* `#14052 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14052>`__: BUG: Replace contextlib.suppress for Python 2.7
* `#14056 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14056>`__: BUG: fix compilation of 3rd party modules with Py_LIMITED_API...
* `#14057 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14057>`__: BUG: Fix memory leak in dtype from dict contructor
* `#14058 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14058>`__: DOC: Document array_function at a higher level.
* `#14084 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14084>`__: BUG, DOC: add new recfunctions to `__all__`
* `#14162 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14162>`__: BUG: Remove stray print that causes a SystemError on python 3.7
* `#14297 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14297>`__: TST: Pin pytest version to 5.0.1.
* `#14322 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14322>`__: ENH: Enable huge pages in all Linux builds
* `#14346 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14346>`__: BUG: fix behavior of structured_to_unstructured on non-trivial...
* `#14382 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/14382>`__: REL: Prepare for the NumPy 1.16.5 release.
