NumPy 1.10.1 Release Notes
**************************

This release deals with a few build problems that showed up in 1.10.0. Most
users would not have seen these problems. The differences are:

* Compiling with msvc9 or msvc10 for 32 bit Windows now requires SSE2.
  This was the easiest fix for what looked to be some miscompiled code when
  SSE2 was not used. If you need to compile for 32 bit Windows systems
  without SSE2 support, mingw32 should still work.

* Make compiling with VS2008 python2.7 SDK easier

* Change Intel compiler options so that code will also be generated to
  support systems without SSE4.2.

* Some _config test functions needed an explicit integer return in
  order to avoid the openSUSE rpmlinter erring out.

* We ran into a problem with pipy not allowing reuse of filenames and a
  resulting proliferation of *.*.*.postN releases. Not only were the names
  getting out of hand, some packages were unable to work with the postN
  suffix.


Numpy 1.10.1 supports Python 2.6 - 2.7 and 3.2 - 3.5.


Commits:

45a3d84 DEP: Remove warning for `full` when dtype is set.
0c1a5df BLD: import setuptools to allow compile with VS2008 python2.7 sdk
04211c6 BUG: mask nan to 1 in ordered compare
826716f DOC: Document the reason msvc requires SSE2 on 32 bit platforms.
49fa187 BLD: enable SSE2 for 32-bit msvc 9 and 10 compilers
dcbc4cc MAINT: remove Wreturn-type warnings from config checks
d6564cb BLD: do not build exclusively for SSE4.2 processors
15cb66f BLD: do not build exclusively for SSE4.2 processors
c38bc08 DOC: fix var. reference in percentile docstring
78497f4 DOC: Sync 1.10.0-notes.rst in 1.10.x branch with master.

