==========================
NumPy 1.11.1 Release Notes
==========================

Numpy 1.11.1 supports Python 2.6 - 2.7 and 3.2 - 3.5. It fixes bugs and
regressions found in Numpy 1.11.0 and includes several build related
improvements. Wheels for Linux, Windows, and OSX can be found on pypi.

Fixes Merged
============

- #7506 BUG: Make sure numpy imports on python 2.6 when nose is unavailable.
- #7530 BUG: Floating exception with invalid axis in np.lexsort.
- #7535 BUG: Extend glibc complex trig functions blacklist to glibc < 2.18.
- #7551 BUG: Allow graceful recovery for no compiler.
- #7558 BUG: Constant padding expected wrong type in constant_values.
- #7578 BUG: Fix OverflowError in Python 3.x. in swig interface.
- #7590 BLD: Fix configparser.InterpolationSyntaxError.
- #7597 BUG: Make np.ma.take work on scalars.
- #7608 BUG: linalg.norm(): Don't convert object arrays to float.
- #7638 BLD: Correct C compiler customization in system_info.py.
- #7654 BUG: ma.median of 1d array should return a scalar.
- #7656 BLD: Remove hardcoded Intel compiler flag -xSSE4.2.
- #7660 BUG: Temporary fix for str(mvoid) for object field types.
- #7665 BUG: Fix incorrect printing of 1D masked arrays.
- #7670 BUG: Correct initial index estimate in histogram.
- #7671 BUG: Boolean assignment no GIL release when transfer needs API.
- #7676 BUG: Fix handling of right edge of final histogram bin.
- #7680 BUG: Fix np.clip bug NaN handling for Visual Studio 2015.
- #7724 BUG: Fix segfaults in np.random.shuffle.
- #7731 MAINT: Change mkl_info.dir_env_var from MKL to MKLROOT.
- #7737 BUG: Fix issue on OS X with Python 3.x, npymath.ini not installed.
