==========================
NumPy 1.11.2 Release Notes
==========================

Numpy 1.11.2 supports Python 2.6 - 2.7 and 3.2 - 3.5. It fixes bugs and
regressions found in Numpy 1.11.1 and includes several build related
improvements. Wheels for Linux, Windows, and OS X can be found on PyPI.

Pull Requests Merged
====================

Fixes overridden by later merges and release notes updates are omitted.

- #7736 BUG: Many functions silently drop 'keepdims' kwarg.
- #7738 ENH: Add extra kwargs and update doc of many MA methods.
- #7778 DOC: Update Numpy 1.11.1 release notes.
- #7793 BUG: MaskedArray.count treats negative axes incorrectly.
- #7816 BUG: Fix array too big error for wide dtypes.
- #7821 BUG: Make sure npy_mul_with_overflow_<type> detects overflow.
- #7824 MAINT: Allocate fewer bytes for empty arrays.
- #7847 MAINT,DOC: Fix some imp module uses and update f2py.compile docstring.
- #7849 MAINT: Fix remaining uses of deprecated Python imp module.
- #7851 BLD: Fix ATLAS version detection.
- #7896 BUG: Construct ma.array from np.array which contains padding.
- #7904 BUG: Fix float16 type not being called due to wrong ordering.
- #7917 BUG: Production install of numpy should not require nose.
- #7919 BLD: Fixed MKL detection for recent versions of this library.
- #7920 BUG: Fix for issue #7835 (ma.median of 1d).
- #7932 BUG: Monkey-patch _msvccompile.gen_lib_option like other compilers.
- #7939 BUG: Check for HAVE_LDOUBLE_DOUBLE_DOUBLE_LE in npy_math_complex.
- #7953 BUG: Guard against buggy comparisons in generic quicksort.
- #7954 BUG: Use keyword arguments to initialize Extension base class.
- #7955 BUG: Make sure numpy globals keep identity after reload.
- #7972 BUG: MSVCCompiler grows 'lib' & 'include' env strings exponentially.
- #8005 BLD: Remove __NUMPY_SETUP__ from builtins at end of setup.py.
- #8010 MAINT: Remove leftover imp module imports.
- #8020 BUG: Fix return of np.ma.count if keepdims is True and axis is None.
- #8024 BUG: Fix numpy.ma.median.
- #8031 BUG: Fix np.ma.median with only one non-masked value.
- #8044 BUG: Fix bug in NpyIter buffering with discontinuous arrays.
