==================================
NumPy 1.16.6+security.2 Release Notes
==================================

The NumPy 1.16.6+security.2 release backports a CVE fix for the f2py
``array_from_pyobj`` function. It is an ActiveState security release on the
1.16.6 line (the prior security release, tagged 1.16.6.1, is treated as
``+security.1``).

Downstream developers building this release should use Cython >= 0.29.2 and, if
using OpenBLAS, OpenBLAS >= v0.3.7. The supported Python versions are 2.7 and
3.5-3.7.

- Deal with CVE-2021-41496

Two further advisories were assessed for this release and found not to require
a code change (both are documented for tracking purposes):

- CVE-2021-33430 (GHSA-6p56-wp2h-9hxr) -- the ``PyArray_NewFromDescr_int``
  stack-buffer bounds check is already present in this line ahead of the
  ``descr->subarray`` ``memcpy``; not applicable.
- CVE-2021-34141 (GHSA-fpfv-jqm9-f5jm) -- disputed; the deprecated
  Numeric-style typecode comparison only affects a ``DeprecationWarning``, not
  the resolved dtype, so there is no security impact and no upstream fix to
  backport.

Highlights
==========

- Fix for CVE-2021-41496: a stack buffer overflow in the f2py
  ``array_from_pyobj`` error path when an intent(cache|hide)|optional array is
  passed negative dimensions. Backported from numpy/numpy PR #20630
  (commit 271010f1037150e9, closes gh-19000).


New functions
=============


Compatibility notes
===================


Improvements
============


Contributors
============

A total of 1 person contributed to this release.

* Warren Weckesser


Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 1 pull request was merged for this release.

* `#20630 <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20630>`__: BUG: f2py: Simplify creation of an exception message. Closes gh-19000.
