.. _c-info.limited-api:

*****************************************
Using NumPy with the Python Limited API
*****************************************

The `Python Limited API <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/stable.html>`_
(also called the **Stable ABI**) is a subset of Python's C API that is
guaranteed to remain binary-compatible across Python versions. Extension
modules built against the Limited API produce ``.abi3`` wheels that run on
any Python version equal to or newer than the one they were compiled against,
without recompilation.

NumPy has supported building against the Python Limited API since **NumPy
2.0**.

.. note::

   Free-threaded (GIL-free) abi3 builds (``abi3t``) are being added in a
   later NumPy release. This page currently covers the standard ``abi3``
   workflow only.


Why use the Limited API?
========================

Normally, a compiled extension wheel is tied to a specific Python version
(e.g., ``my_ext-1.0-cp313-cp313-linux_x86_64.whl`` only runs on CPython
3.13). With the Limited API you can instead ship a single
``my_ext-1.0-cp39-abi3-linux_x86_64.whl`` that runs on Python 3.9, 3.10,
3.11, 3.12, 3.13 and beyond.

Benefits:

- **Fewer wheels to build and upload** — one wheel per platform instead of
  one per (platform × Python version).
- **Future-proof** — your wheel continues to work on new Python releases
  without a rebuild.
- **Smaller CI matrix** — no need to build on every Python minor version.

Constraints:

- You can only use the C API symbols that are part of the stable subset.
  Some NumPy types and struct members are **not** available when
  ``Py_LIMITED_API`` is defined (see :ref:`limited-api-restrictions` below).
- The minimum Python version is locked at compile time. Choosing ``3.9``
  means you cannot use Limited-API symbols added after 3.9.


How it works at the C level
============================

When you define ``Py_LIMITED_API`` before including ``<Python.h>``, the
CPython headers hide everything that is not part of the stable ABI. NumPy
respects this macro: its public headers (``numpy/arrayobject.h``,
``numpy/ndarraytypes.h``, etc.) detect ``Py_LIMITED_API`` and guard out
struct members and types that are not safe to expose.

You do **not** need to define ``Py_LIMITED_API`` manually when using Meson —
the build system does it for you when you pass ``limited_api:`` to
``py.extension_module()``.


Building with Meson
===================

`Meson <https://mesonbuild.com/>`_ is the recommended build system for new
NumPy extension modules. Pass the ``limited_api`` keyword to
``py.extension_module()`` with the minimum Python version you want to
support::

    project('my_extension', 'c')

    py = import('python').find_installation(pure: false)

    # Get the NumPy include directory
    npy_include = run_command(
        py, ['-c', 'import numpy; print(numpy.get_include())'],
        check: true,
    ).stdout().strip()

    py.extension_module(
        'my_ext',
        'my_ext.c',
        include_directories: [npy_include],
        c_args: ['-DNPY_NO_DEPRECATED_API=NPY_1_21_API_VERSION'],
        limited_api: '3.9',     # minimum Python version
        install: true,
    )

Meson automatically:

- Defines ``Py_LIMITED_API`` to the correct hex version (e.g. ``0x03090000``
  for Python 3.9).
- Names the output file with the ``.abi3.so`` suffix on Linux/macOS or
  ``.pyd`` on Windows.
- Links against the stable ``python3.dll`` import library on Windows.

The corresponding C source file needs no special changes — just include the
NumPy headers as usual::

    #include <Python.h>
    #include <numpy/arrayobject.h>

    static PyModuleDef moduledef = {
        .m_base = PyModuleDef_HEAD_INIT,
        .m_name = "my_ext",
    };

    PyMODINIT_FUNC PyInit_my_ext(void)
    {
        import_array();
        return PyModule_Create(&moduledef);
    }


Building with setuptools
========================

If you use ``setuptools``, define ``Py_LIMITED_API`` manually via
``define_macros`` and set ``py_limited_api=True`` on the ``Extension``::

    import numpy as np
    from setuptools import Extension, setup

    ext = Extension(
        "my_ext",
        sources=["my_ext.c"],
        include_dirs=[np.get_include()],
        define_macros=[
            ("Py_LIMITED_API", "0x03090000"),   # Python 3.9+
            ("NPY_NO_DEPRECATED_API", "NPY_1_21_API_VERSION"),
        ],
        py_limited_api=True,   # tags wheel as .abi3
    )

    setup(ext_modules=[ext])

.. note::

   ``py_limited_api=True`` only affects the wheel tag generated by
   ``bdist_wheel``. You still need to pass ``Py_LIMITED_API`` as a macro so
   the headers hide non-stable symbols.


Building with Cython
====================

`Cython <https://cython.org/>`_ 3.0+ supports the Limited API. In your
``meson.build``::

    py.extension_module(
        'my_cython_ext',
        'my_cython_ext.pyx',
        c_args: [
            '-DNPY_NO_DEPRECATED_API=0',
            '-DCYTHON_LIMITED_API=1',
        ],
        include_directories: [npy_include],
        limited_api: '3.9',
        install: true,
    )

Set ``CYTHON_LIMITED_API=1`` (not ``Py_LIMITED_API`` directly) so that Cython
can generate code compatible with the stable ABI.

.. _limited-api-restrictions:

Restrictions and known limitations
====================================

Not all NumPy C API features are available when ``Py_LIMITED_API`` is defined.

**Types hidden under ``Py_LIMITED_API``:**

- :c:type:`PyArrayScalar_VAL` and :c:type:`PyUnicodeScalarObject` are not
  accessible. Code that reads scalar values directly from the struct must be
  rewritten to use the NumPy Python API (e.g. :func:`numpy.asarray`) or the
  iterator API instead.

- :c:type:`PyArray_DTypeMeta` is a ``typedef`` for ``PyTypeObject`` when
  ``Py_LIMITED_API`` is set, because it contains ``PyHeapTypeObject`` which
  is not part of the stable ABI. Custom DType implementations cannot use
  the full ``PyArray_DTypeMeta`` struct layout in Limited API builds.

**General guidelines:**

- Avoid direct struct member access on ``PyArrayObject``. Prefer the
  accessor macros (``PyArray_DATA``, ``PyArray_NDIM``, ``PyArray_DIMS``,
  etc.) which remain available in the Limited API.
- Check the ``numpy/ndarraytypes.h`` and ``numpy/arrayobject.h`` headers for
  ``#ifndef Py_LIMITED_API`` guards to identify what is unavailable.
- Build and test your extension against a Python version *different* from the
  one you compiled against (e.g. compile on 3.9, test on 3.12) to catch ABI
  issues early.


Distributing abi3 wheels
=========================

When building wheels for distribution, set the minimum Python version tag to
match the ``Py_LIMITED_API`` version you compiled against. Tools like
`cibuildwheel <https://cibuildwheel.pypa.io/>`_ handle this automatically
when configured correctly — see the
`cibuildwheel abi3 docs <https://cibuildwheel.pypa.io/en/stable/faq/#abi3>`__
for details.

For a project supporting Python 3.9+, the resulting wheel filename will look
like::

    my_ext-1.0-cp39-abi3-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl


See also
========

- :ref:`CPython stable ABI documentation <python:stable-abi>`
- :ref:`for-downstream-package-authors` — NumPy ABI compatibility overview
- `cibuildwheel abi3 guide <https://cibuildwheel.pypa.io/en/stable/faq/#abi3>`__
- `Meson Python extension_module docs
  <https://mesonbuild.com/Python-module.html#extension_module>`__
